# Automatic-Text-Summarizer
A Text Summarizer which automatically generates the summary of the given text . The text can be given in the form of document , image or any URL. It also consists of a voice assistant which recites the summary to the user if desired.
## Summarization
Summarization is the task of condensing a piece of text to a shorter version, reducing the size of the initial text while at the same time preserving key informational elements and the meaning of content. 

In general, there are two different approaches for automatic summarization: extractive and abstractive.

### Extractive approach 
In this , content is extracted from the original data, but the extracted content is not modified in any way. It picks up sentences directly from the document based on a scoring function to form a coherent summary. Hence the summary is generated by only picking up the important sentences.
### Abstractive appraoch 
This method aims at producing summary by interpreting the text using advanced natural language processing techniques in order to generate a new shorter text . This shorter text may not appear in the original document, but conveys the most critical information from the original text. It is similar to human-written abstracts.
In this project , we are going to use Extractive method.

***Prerequisites*** : Here is the list of all the libraries that needed to be installed before proceeding further.

bs4 : for parsing the webpages

nltk : for performing Natural Language Processing Tasks.

pillow(PIL) : for image processing

pytesseract : for optical character recognition

gtts : for text to audio generation

pygame : for playing the audio

cv2 : for reading and writing image

tkinter : for frontend layout
